feat(telemetry): Add support for exporting archive-level query traces in the clp-json package; Rename record-count metrics for clarity. (#2351)
y-scope/clp: docs/src/user-docs/reference-telemetry.md

| `clp.deployment.reducer_replicas`               | Gauge | Number of reducer replicas            |
| `clp.deployment.reducer_concurrency`            | Gauge | Reducer concurrency                   |

### Traces

> The following OpenTelemetry traces are emitted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following OpenTelemetry traces are emitted.
```

#### Archive-level search

Emitted per-archive according to a configurable sampling probability.

| Attribute                                               | Type    | Description                                                               |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `clp.query.success`                                     | Boolean | Whether the search completed successfully                                 |
| `clp.query.error`                                       | String  | The error message, if a failure occurred                                  |
| `clp.query.query_hash`                                  | Int64   | A hash of the query string                                                |

> | `clp.query.query_id`                                    | String  | The ID of the Job                                                         |

Reviewer: `Job` -> `query job`?

| `clp.query.task_id`                                     | String  | The ID of the task in the Job                                             |
| `clp.query.archive_id_hash`                             | Int64   | A hash of the archive ID                                                  |
| `clp.query.column_types.num_pure_wildcard`              | Int64   | Number of column descriptors in the query that are only a wildcard        |
| `clp.query.column_types.num_some_wildcard`              | Int64   | Number of column descriptors in the query that mix wildcards and literals |
| `clp.query.column_types.num_no_wildcard`                | Int64   | Number of column descriptors in the query that contain no wildcards       |

> | `clp.query.predicate_types.num_string`                  | Int64   | Number of predicates comparing against a string literal with no wildcards |

Reviewer: Instead of the phrasing "Number of predicates comparing against" how about "Number of comparisons between a column and a"?

| `clp.query.predicate_types.num_string_with_wildcard`    | Int64   | Number of predicates comparing against a string literal with wildcards    |
| `clp.query.predicate_types.num_int`                     | Int64   | Number of predicates comparing against an integer literal                 |
| `clp.query.predicate_types.num_float`                   | Int64   | Number of predicates comparing against a float literal                    |
| `clp.query.predicate_types.num_null`                    | Int64   | Number of predicates comparing against a null literal                     |
| `clp.query.predicate_types.num_exact_match`             | Int64   | Number of equality predicates                                             |
| `clp.query.predicate_types.num_range`                   | Int64   | Number of range predicates                                                |

> | `clp.query.predicate_types.num_exists`                  | Int64   | Number of predicates on field existence                                   |

Reviewer: How about "Number of field-existence predicates"?

| `clp.query.num_predicates`                              | Int64   | Total number of predicates in the query                                   |
| `clp.query.contains_or_clause`                          | Boolean | Whether the query contains an OR clause                                   |
| `clp.query.time_range_millis`                           | Int64   | Time range of the query in milliseconds                                   |
| `clp.query.num_total_archive_records`                   | Int64   | Total number of records                                                   |
| `clp.query.num_candidate_records_after_schema_matching` | Int64   | Total number of candidate records after schema matching                   |

> | `clp.query.num_records_matching_query`                  | Int64   | Total number of records matching the query                                |

Reviewer: Sorry, should've thought of this earlier, but what do you think of these names instead?

- `num_archive_records`
- `num_archive_records_matching_schemas`
- `num_archive_records_matching_query`

Author: I'm fine with them, and they agree a bit better with your other docs suggestions that emphasize the archive-centricness of these metrics.

| `clp.query.num_matched_schemas`                         | Int64   | Total number of schema matched by schema matching                         |
| `clp.query.num_schemas_with_matches`                    | Int64   | Total number of schemas containing at least one matching record           |
| `clp.query.termination_stage`                           | String  | The stage at which the query terminated                                   | 

The termination stage can be one of:

| Stage                                         | Description                                          |
| --------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |

> | `range_index_matching`                        | Early termination after examining range index        |

Reviewer: How about "the archive's range index"?

> | `time_range_matching`                         | Early termination after examining archive time-range |

Reviewer: How about "the archive's time range"?

| `schema_matching`                             | Early termination after schema matching              |

> | `time_range_matching_after_column_resolution` | Early termination after re-examining time-range      |

Reviewer: "re-examining the archive's time range"?

> | `dictionary_search`                           | Early termination after dictionary search            |

Reviewer: "searching the archive's dictionaries"?

> | `ert_scan`                                    | Termination after decompression and scan             |

Reviewer: "decompressing and scanning the archive's encoded-record tables"?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

:::
::::

> The `query_worker` component also supports exporting traces with detailed search metrics on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `query_worker` component also supports exporting traces with detailed metrics about querying
```

individual archives; you can configure the sampling probability for these traces in the

> configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration.
```

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} Docker Compose
:sync: docker
Edit `clp-config.yaml` to set the sampling probability:

```yaml
query_worker:

>   search_sampling_probability: 0.01

Reviewer: How about `query_trace_sampling_probability`?

```

:::
:::{tab-item} Kubernetes
:sync: k8s
Edit `values.yaml` to set the sampling probability:

```yaml
clpConfig:
  query_worker:
    search_sampling_probability: 0.01
```

:::

> ::::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::::

```
